added revdate to Edge documents (#790) (#794)
suse-edge/suse-edge.github.io: asciidoc/github_workflow_best_practices.adoc

= SUSE Edge Engineering GitHub workflow: Best Practices

There are multiple ways to use Git and GitHub workflows, how to create PR/MR, cherry pick commits to a specific branch, etc.

This document explains how the SUSE Edge engineering team does it.

== Configure your user and email

[,shell]
----
$ git config --global user.name "FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME"
$ git config --global user.email "MY_NAME@example.com"
----

This can be done individually per repository without the `--global` flag.

== Fork the repository

> Ideally, you won't push changes to branches on the suse-edge/ repositories but instead you'll fork the repository on the GitHub UI and _do your thing_ there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ideally, you will not push changes to branches on the suse-edge/ repositories but will instead fork the repository on the GitHub UI and _work on your changes_ there.
```

[,shell]
----
$ git switch main
$ git pull --rebase upstream/main
$ git checkout -b myawesomebranch
----

This will create a new branch locally with the content of the main one.

== Push changes from your local branch to GitHub

[,shell]
----
$ git add <files>
$ git commit -av
# Review the changes, add a meaningful commit message and save it
$ git push origin/myawesomebranch
----

== Create a PR

After the git push message from above, a GitHub URL will be shown. Follow it and create the PR. Double check the content, the branches, the repositories from/to and the list of changes.

== Rebase your branch

It can happen that the content in the main branch of the upstream repository changed. You will need to refresh your main branch and rebase the branch you've been working.

[,shell]
----
$ git pull --rebase upstream/main
$ git push --force-with-lease
----

____
Potential issues with `--force-with-lease` can happen.
____

== Cherry pick commits

When things have been merged on for example the main branch and you want to cherry-pick them in another branch (for example release-3.3), the process should be:

* Get all the branches:

----
$ git fetch --all
----

> * Get the commit id(s) you want to cherry-pick (from the main branch):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Get the commit ID(s) you want to cherry-pick (from the main branch):
```

----
$ git log main --oneline
----

or

----
$ git log main --graph --oneline --all
----

* Create a branch where the cherry-pick process is landing:

----
$ git checkout -b cherry-pick-of-fix-293 upstream/release-3.3
----

* Cherry-pick the commit(s):

----
$ git cherry-pick -x <commit-id(s)>
----

Observe the output and see if there are conflicts. If there are, good luck fix them! :)

* Review the git log just in case:

----
$ git log
----

* Push the changes

----
$ git push origin cherry-pick-of-fix-293
----

* Create the PR

> After the git push message from above, a GitHub URL will be shown. Follow it and create the PR. Double check the content, the branches, the repositories from/to and the list of changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the git push message from above, a GitHub URL will be shown. Follow it and create the PR. Double-check the content, the branches, the repositories from/to and the list of changes.
```

== Incorporate feedback from a PR

> Most of the time a pull request will require some changes. To incorporate such feedback there are a few ways but the general recommendation is to rework the commit locally and push it with the feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the time, a pull request will require some changes. To incorporate such feedback, there are a few ways but the general recommendation is to rework the commit locally and push it with the feedback.
```

* Verify you are still on the PR branch:

----
$ git branch
$ git status
----

> * Add the changes to the required files and add the files to stage:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add the changes to the required files and stage them:
```

----
$ git add path/to/my/file
----

If you want to just add changes to the last commit without changing the message:

----
$ git commit --amend --no-edit
----

> Then force push the branch (see below)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then force push the branch (see below).
```

If you want to combine multiple small commits that address feedback into one clean commit, or combine them with previous commits in your PR:

* Count how many commits you want to squash/reword (e.g., N).

----
$ git log --oneliner
----

Then:

----
$ git rebase -i HEAD~N
----

> This will open an editor where you can squash, fixup, reword, etc., commits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This opens an editor where you can squash, fix up, reword or otherwise edit commits.
```

> * Save and close the editor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Save and close the editor.
```
